---
layout: post
title:  "Intro"
date:   2015-01-20 10:00:45
categories: intro
---

I will *almost* any movie with one of the following.

- Time Travel
- Artificial Intelligence
- [Grey Goo][grey-goo]

I watched [Time Lapse][time-lapse] recently and couldn't help but wish that more content creators wrote [Level 1 Intelligent Characters][level-1-intelligent-characters].  Ever since reading about the concept I can't stop seeing the stupid, plot advancing, illogical actions in the various shows and movies I consume.

> *"Reading good fiction is like making the jump from masturbation to sex."* - Stephen King

I imagine it is more difficult to write fiction in this fashion but the
difference (once you're paying attention) is uncanny.

*If you haven't seen **Time Lapse** you should probably skip the rest of this
post as it contains spoilers.*

In the film, the characters acquire a camera that takes pictures of the future.
Each evening at 8pm the camera takes a picture of what will be happening at 8pm
the next day.  Each day, they eagerly look at the picture and then, fearing
what will happen if they violate causality, ensure that they reproduce the
photo.  This has the effect of railroading them down the *path* their future
selves have laid out for them, and subsequently they find themselves pulled
along from day to day, forced into a pre-ordained future.

I have some issues with how they choose to pass information back from the
future.  Anyone who's seen [Primer][primer] (and subsequently seen it a few
more times so that they understand what is going on) should recognize the first
problem here.  The actors from the future are interacting with the past
versions of themselves, effectively modifying their previous actions, creating
a sort of chicken/egg causality loop.  By passing information back to yourself,
you set up a sort of *loop* in which your previous self must ensure they act in
such a way that passes the same information back.  You remove the option of
choice, setting yourself into a chain of actions that are controlled by an
arbitrary, unseen future version of yourself.

What the characters *should* have done, is establish a complete information
firewall between those passing information back from the future and those
acting on that information.  With this separation in place during the time
window between when the information is received and the point that it is passed
back in time, those passing the information back are free to choose what
information they pass backwards, and the recipients are free to act on that
information in whatever way they wish.

There is of course a lot of [hand waving][hand-waving] involved in logically
disecting time travel mechanics.

At a bare minimum, it seems that any *normal* persion would see that by viewing
the picture they are locking themselves into a course of action and spend some
time trying to figure out a better way to exploit the situation.


[grey-goo]:    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grey_goo
[time-lapse]:  http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2669336/
[level-1-intelligent-characters]: http://yudkowsky.tumblr.com/writing/level1intelligent
[primer]: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0390384/
[hand-waving]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Handwaving
