---
layout: post
title:  "Flex 3.0.0"
date:   2015-02-04 10:00:45
categories:
  - flex
  - python
  - swagger
---

[flex][flex] is a library I began writing months ago.  We had a REST API that
needed documenting, and after a bit of research, [swagger][swagger] rose to the
top as the best option.

For those who are not familiar with it, Swagger is a specification for
describing a REST API.  It provide mechanisms for declaring where your api
lives, versioning, endpoints, parts of the request (headers, query parameters,
form data), parts of the response (status codes, headers, etc), and much much
more.  This declarative format is extremely powerful, if not a little hard to
become familiar with.

The official [Swagger Specification][swagger-spec] is a long and detailed read.
If you aren't already intimately familiar with it, you'd need to also dive into
the [json-schema spec][json-schema] to really wrap your head around how to
specify all of the parts of your API.  However, once you have your API
declared, there are some very powerful things that you can do with this
information.

At the time that I was diving into swagger, testing was my primary concern.  I
needed a way to both document the API for a 3rd party to consume, as well as
some form of automated verification that the API conformed to the specification
that the documentation claimed.

I realized that given the data from the request/response cycle of an API call,
and the swagger spec for the API, that I had all of the information needed to
validate that the API call conformed to the specification.


```python
>>> import requests
>>> import flex
>>> response = requests.get("http://example.com/api/comments/")
>>> swagger_schema = flex.load("/path/to/my/schema.json")
>>> flex.validate_api_call(schema=swagger_schema, raw_request=response.request, raw_response=response) 
Invalid
  'response':
         - 'Request status code was not found in the known response codes.  Got `301`: Expected one of: `[200]`'
```

This sort of validation can act as a very strong *glue* to keep your
documentation in sync with your code.


[flex]: https://github.com/pipermerriam/flex
[swagger-spec]: https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-spec/blob/master/versions/2.0.md
[swagger]: http://swagger.io/
[json-schema]: http://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-validation.html
